---
layout: docs
title: Configuration
permalink: /docs/configuration/
---
There are two types of configurations - static and dynamic. Static configurations are defined in files or environment variables, requiring restarting app server to take effect, whereas dynamic configurations are defined in databases and updates take effect immediately. Most static configurations are specified in file */server/config.json* conforming to Loopback [config.json docs](https://docs.strongloop.com/display/public/LB/config.json). *NotifyBC* added some additional configurations. If you need to change, instead of updating */server/config.json* file, create [environment-specific file](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb2/config.json.html#environment-specific-settings) such as */server/config.local.json*. Dynamic configs are managed using REST [configuration api](../api-config/). 

<div class="note info">
  <h5>Why Dynamic Configs?</h5>
  <p>dynamic configs that are saved to database are needed in cases such as
  <ul>
  <li>to allow define service-specific configs such as message templates</li>
  <li>in a multi-node deployment, configs can be generated by one node and share with other nodes</li>
  </ul>
  </p>
</div>


## Admin IP List
By [design](../overview/#architecture), *NotifyBC* classifies incoming requests into four types. For a request to be classified as super-admin, the request's source ip must be in admin ip list. By default, the list contains *localhost* only as defined by *defaultAdminIps* in */server/config.json* 

```
{
  "defaultAdminIps": [
    "127.0.0.1"
  ]
}
```
to modify, create config object *adminIps* with updated list in file */server/config.local.json* instead. For example, to add ip range *192.168.0.0/24* to the list

```
{
  "adminIps": [
    "127.0.0.1",
    "192.168.0.0/24"
  ]
}
```


<div class="note warning">
  <h5>Define static array config in one file only</h5>
  <p>
  Due to a <a href="https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-boot/issues/172">bug</a> in Loopback a config of array type such as <i>adminIps</i> cannot be merged if defined in multiple files with different length. To mitigate, only define an array config in one file.
  It is for this reason that the default admin ip list has to use a different name <i>defaultAdminIps</i> as shown above.
  </p>
</div>

## SiteMinder Reverse Proxy IP List and Trusted Reverse Proxy IP List

SiteMinder, being a gateway approached SSO solution, expects the backend HTTP access point of the web sites it protests to be firewall restricted, otherwise the SiteMinder injected HTTP headers can be easily spoofed. However, the restriction cannot be easily implemented on PAAS such as OpenShift. To mitigate, two configuration objects are introduced to create an application-level firewall, both are arrays of ip addresses in the format of [dot-decimal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot-decimal_notation) or [CIDR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing#CIDR_notation) notation

  * *siteMinderReverseProxyIps* contains a list of ips or ranges of SiteMinder Web Agents. If set, then the SiteMinder HTTP headers are trusted only if the request is routed from the listed nodes.
  * *trustedReverseProxyIps* contains a list of ips or ranges of trusted reverse proxies between the SiteMinder Web Agents and *NotifyBC* application. When runing on OpenShift, this is usually the OpenShift router. Express.js [trust proxy](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/behind-proxies.html) is set to this config object.

To set, add following objects for example to file /server/config.local.json

```
{
  "siteMinderReverseProxyIps":[
    "130.32.12.0"
  ],
  "trustedReverseProxyIps":[
    "172.17.0.0/16"
  ]
}
```

The rule to determine if the incoming request is authenticated by SiteMinder is

1. obtain the real client ip address by filtering out trusted proxy ips according to [Express behind proxies](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/behind-proxies.html)
2. if the real client ip is contained in *siteMinderReverseProxyIps*, then the request is from SiteMinder, and its SiteMinder headers are trusted; otherwise, the request is considered as directly from internet, and its SiteMinder headers are ignored.

## SMTP
By default *NotifyBC* connects [directly](https://community.nodemailer.com/2-0-0-beta/setup-smtp/) to recipient's mailbox bypassing any SMTP relay. You can setup SMTP relay by adding following *smtp* config object to */server/config.local.json*

```json
{
  "smtp": {
    "host": "smtp.foo.com",
    "port": 25,
    "ignoreTLS": true,
    "secure": false
  }
}
```
Check out [Nodemailer](https://github.com/nodemailer/nodemailer#set-up-smtp) for other config options that you can define in *smtp* object.

## SMS
*NotifyBC* depends on underlying SMS service providers to deliver SMS messages. The supported service providers are

 * Twilio (default)

Only one service provider can be chosen per installation. To change service provider, add following *smsServiceProvider* config object to file */server/config.local.json*

```json
{
  "smsServiceProvider": "twilio"
}
```
The rest configs are service provider specific. You should have an account with the chosen service provider before proceeding.

### Twilio
Add *sms.twilio* config object to file */server/config.local.json*

```json
{
  "sms": {
    "twilio": {
      "accountSid": "<AccountSid>",
      "authToken": "<AuthToken>",
      "fromNumber": "<FromNumber>"
    }
  }
}
```
Obtain *\<AccountSid\>*, *\<AuthToken\>* and *\<FromNumber\>* from your Twilio account.

## Subscription/Unsubscription
Configs in this section customize behavior of subscription and unsubscription workflow. They are all sub-properties of config object *subscription*. This object can be defined as service-agnostic static config as well as service-specific dynamic config, which overrides the static one on a service-by-service basis. Default static config is defined in file */server/config.json*. There is no default dynamic config.

To customize static config, create the config object *subscription* in file */server/config.local.json*

```json
{
  "subscription": {
    ...
  }
}
```

to create a service-specific dynamic config, use REST [config api](../configuration/)

```sh
~ $ curl -X POST --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' -d '{ \ 
   "name": "subscription", \ 
   "serivceName": "myService", \ 
   "value": { \ 
    ...\
    } \ 
 }' 'http://localhost:3000/api/configurations'
```
Sub-properties denoted by ellipsis in the above two code blocks are documented below. A service can have at most one dynamic subscription config.

### Confirmation Request Message
To prevent *NotifyBC* from being used as spam engine, when a subscription request is sent by user (as opposed to admin) without encryption, the content of confirmation request sent to user's notification channel has to come from a pre-configured template as opposed to be specified in subscription request. 

The following default subscription sub-property *confirmationRequest* defines confirmation request message settings for different channels 

```json
"subscription": {
  "confirmationRequest": {
    "sms": {
      "confirmationCodeRegex": "\\d{5}",
      "sendRequest": true,
      "textBody": "Enter {confirmation_code} on screen"
    },
    "email": {
      "confirmationCodeRegex": "\\d{5}",
      "sendRequest": true,
      "from": "no_reply@example.com",
      "subject": "Subscription confirmation",
      "textBody": "Enter {confirmation_code} on screen",
      "htmlBody": "Enter {confirmation_code} on screen"
    }
  }
}
```

### Confirmation Verification Acknowledgement Messages
You can customize *NotifyBC*'s on-screen response message to confirmation code verification requests. The following is the default settings

```json
"subscription": {
  "confirmationAcknowledgements": {
    "successMessage": "You have been subscribed.",
    "failureMessage": "Error happened while confirming subscription."
  }
}
```
In addition to customizing the message, you can define a redirect URL instead of displaying *successMessage* or *failureMessage*. For example, to redirect on-screen acknowledgement to a page in your app for service *myService*, create a dynamic config by calling REST config api  

```sh
~ $ curl -X POST --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' -d '{ \ 
  "name": "subscription", \ 
  "serivceName": "myService", \ 
  "value": { \ 
    "confirmationAcknowledgements": { \
      "redirectUrl": "https://myapp/subscription/acknowledgement" \
    } \
  } \ 
 }' 'http://localhost:3000/api/configurations'
```
If error happened during unsubscription, query string *?err=\<error\>* will be appended to *redirectUrl*.


### Anonymous Unsubscription
For anonymous subscription, *NotifyBC* supports one-click opt-out by allowing unsubscription URL provided in notifications. To thwart unauthorized unsubscription attempts, *NotifyBC* implemented and enabled by default two security measurements 

* Anonymous unsubscription request requires unsubscription code, which is a random string generated at subscription time. Unsubscription code reduces brute force attack risk by increasing size of key space. Without it, an attacker only needs to successfully guess subscription id. Be aware, however, the unsubscription code has to be embedded in unsubscription link. If the user forwarded a notification to other people, he/she is still vulnerable to unauthorized unsubscription.
* Acknowledgement notification - a (final) notification is sent to user acknowledging unsubscription, and offers a link to revert had the change been made unauthorized. A deleted subscription (unsubscription) may have a limited lifetime (30 days by default) according to retention policy defined in [cron job](#cron-job) so the reversion can only be performed within the lifetime.  

You can customize anonymous unsubscription settings by changing the *anonymousUnsubscription* configuration. Following is the default settings defined in [config.json](https://github.com/bcgov/MyGovBC-notification-server/blob/master/server/config.json)
 
```json
"subscription": {
  "anonymousUnsubscription": {
    "code": {
      "required": true,
      "regex": "\\d{5}"
    },
    "acknowledgements":{
      "onScreen": {
        "successMessage": "You have been un-subscribed.",
        "failureMessage": "Error happened while un-subscribing."
      },
      "notification":{
        "email": {
          "from": "no_reply@example.com",
          "subject": "Un-subscription acknowledgement",
          "textBody": "This is to acknowledge you have been un-subscribed from receiving notification for service {service_name}. If you did not authorize this change or if you changed your mind, click {unsubscription_reversion_url} to revert."
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
The settings control whether or not unsubscription code is required, its RegEx pattern, and acknowledgement message templates, both on-screen and push notifications. Customization should be made to file */server/config.local.json*.

For on-screen acknowledgement, you can define a redirect URL instead of displaying *successMessage* or *failureMessage*. For example, to redirect on-screen acknowledgement to a page in your app for all services, create following config in file */server/config.local.json* 

```json
"subscription":{
  "anonymousUnsubscription": {
    "acknowledgements":{
      "onScreen": {
        "redirectUrl": "https://myapp/unsubscription/acknowledgement"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
If error happened during unsubscription, query string *?err=\<error\>* will be appended to *redirectUrl*.

<a name="anonymousUndoUnsubscription"></a>
You can customize message displayed on-screen when user clicks revert unsubscription link in the acknowledgement notification. The default settings are

```json
"subscription": {
  "anonymousUndoUnsubscription":{
    "successMessage": "You have been re-subscribed.",
    "failureMessage": "Error happened while re-subscribing."
  }
}
```
You can redirect the message page by defining *anonymousUndoUnsubscription.redirectUrl*.
  
## Notification 
Configs in this section customize the handling of notification request or generating notifications from RSS feeds.  They are all sub-properties of config object *notification*. Service-agnostic  configs are static and service-dependent configs are dynamic. 

### Broadcast Task Concurrency
When handling a broadcast push notification, *NotifyBC* sends messages concurrently to improve performance. The configuration *broadcastTaskConcurrency* defines the concurrency level. By default it is 100. To change, add following object to */server/config.local.json* :

```json
{
  "notification": {
    "broadcastTaskConcurrency": 200
  }
}
```

### RSS Feeds
*NotifyBC* can generate notifications automatically by pulling RSS feeds periodically and detect changes between pull intervals. The pulling frequency, RSS url, RSS item change detection criteria, and message template can be defined in dynamic configs.  

For example, to notify subscribers of *myService* on updates to feed *http://my-serivce/rss*, create following config item using [POST configuration API](../api-config/#create-a-configuration)

```json
{
  "name": "notification",
  "serviceName": "myService",
  "value": {
    "rss": {
      "url": "http://my-serivce/rss",
      "timeSpec": "* * * * *",
      "itemKeyName": "guid",
      "includeUpdatedItems": true,
      "fieldsToCheckForUpdate": [
        "title",
        "pubDate",
        "description"
      ]
    },
    "httpHost": "http://localhost:3000",
    "messageTemplates": {
      "email": {
        "from": "no_reply@example.com",
        "subject": "{title}",
        "textBody": "{description}",
        "htmlBody": "{description}"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
The config items in the *value* field are

* rss
  * url: RSS url
  * timeSpec: a space separated fields conformed to [unix crontab format](https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?crontab(5)) with an optional left-most seconds field. See [allowed ranges](https://github.com/kelektiv/node-cron#cron-ranges) of each field
  * itemKeyField: rss item's unique key field to identify new items. By default *guid*
  * includeUpdatedItems: whether to notify also updated items or just new items. By default *false*  
  * fieldsToCheckForUpdate: list of fields to check for updates from last pull if *includeUpdatedItems* is *true*. By default *["pubDate"]*
* httpHost: the http protocol, host and port used by [mail merge](../overview/#mail-merge). If missing, the value is auto-populated based on the REST request that creates this config item.
* messageTemplates: channel-specific message templates supporting dynamic token as shown

## Database
By default *NotifyBC* uses in-memory database backed up by file in */server/database/data.json* for local and docker deployment and MongoDB for OpenShift deployment. To use MongoDB for non-OpenShift deployment, add file */server/datasources.local.json* with MongoDB connection information such as following:

```json
{
 "db": {
   "name": "db",
   "connector": "mongodb",
   "host": "127.0.0.1",
   "database": "notifyBC",
   "port": 27017
 }
}
```

See [LoopBack MongoDB data source](https://docs.strongloop.com/display/public/LB/MongoDB+connector#MongoDBconnector-CreatingaMongoDBdatasource) for more configurable properties.

## Node Roles
In a multi-node deployment, some tasks should only be run by one node. That node is designated as *master*. The distinction is made using environment variable *NOTIFYBC_NODE_ROLE*. Setting to anything other than *slave*, including not set, will be regarded as *master*.

## Cron Jobs
*NotifyBC* runs several cron jobs described below. These jobs are controlled by sub-properties defined in config object *cron*. To change config, create the object and properties in file */server/config.local*.

By default cron jobs are enabled. In a multi-node deployment, cron jobs should only run on the [master node](#node-roles) to ensure single execution.

### Purge Data
This cron job purges old notifications and subscriptions. The default frequency of cron job and retention policy are defined by *cron.purgeData* config object in file */server/config.json*

```json
 {
   "cron": {
    "purgeData":{
      "timeSpec": "0 0 1 * * *",
      "pushNotificationRetentionDays" : 30,
      "expiredInAppNotificationRetentionDays" : 30,
      "nonConfirmedSubscriptionRetentionDays" : 30,
      "defaultRetentionDays": 30
    }
   }
 }
```

The config items are

* timeSpec: a space separated fields conformed to [unix crontab format](https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?crontab(5)) with an optional left-most seconds field. See [allowed ranges](https://github.com/kelektiv/node-cron#cron-ranges) of each field
* pushNotificationRetentionDays: the retention days of push notifications
* expiredInAppNotificationRetentionDays: the retention days of expired inApp notifications
* nonConfirmedSubscriptionRetentionDays: the retention days of non-confirmed subscriptions, i.e. all unconfirmed and deleted subscriptions
* defaultRetentionDays: if any of the above retention day config item is omitted, default retention days is used as fall back.

To change a config item, set the config item in file */server/config.local.json*. For example, to run cron jobs at 2am daily, add following object to */server/config.local.json*

```json
 {
   "cron": {
    "purgeData":{
      "timeSpec": "0 0 2 * * *"
    }
   }
 }
```

### Dispatch Live Notifications
This cron job sends out future-dated notifications when the notification becomes current. The default config is defined by *cron.dispatchLiveNotifications* config object in file */server/config.json*

```json
 {
   "cron": {
    "dispatchLiveNotifications":{
      "timeSpec": "0 * * * * *"
    }
   }
 }
```
*timeSpec* follows the same syntax as purge data.

## RSA Keys
When *NotifyBC* starts up, it checks if an RSA key pair exists in database as dynamic config. If not it will generate the dynamic config and save it to database. This RSA key pair is used to exchange confidential information with third party server applications through user's browser. For an example of use case, see [Subscription API](../api-subscription/). To make it work, send the public key to the third party and have their server app encrypt the data using the public key. To obtain public key, call the REST [Configuration API](..api-config/#get-configurations) from an admin ip, for example, by running *cURL* command
```bash
~ $ curl -X GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/configurations?filter=%7B%22where%22%3A%20%7B%22name%22%3A%20%22rsa%22%7D%7D'
```
or you can open API explorer, expand `GET /configurations` and set filter to 

```json
{"where": {"name": "rsa"}}
```

The response should be something like

```json
[
  {
    "name": "rsa",
    "value": {
      "private": "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----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\nFfzV3l7pNSdILn1bNqoMz9CaYK7CGIYpBWCbRJlRSYw2FHJwl5tzgmkk\n-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----",
      "public": "-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----\nMIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEA8Hl+/cF3AOxKVRHtZpeS\nDM+LLGc2hkDkKxRXe72maUAzDUoOoNd6wd02Cf6iO7kj0RSDHXUyINxCgvXy2Q7g\nME4zRN5WG4ItWZ7FITeNgJJW1r+JshDjTwKVpMvcKHy0vyUl25ah7hnwGK6PbJvF\nWMmtIBw6Rs5DaERAlmilgkuUgdriaA4YhhS4pCJLvO2p9wZd+dLWUT+tpsOZGeec\nC8If3fyShgrocMbd8pYYDzf65oCtVaLaNdERaIJSDcmbHxFpeBdEQEzxw2qRPbUC\nnSgQb8cVFLJ2eOEn5LylWhU96A1S3w1IlRm5N2zG0En58Vruo26gEtl5KFu0zivl\nawIDAQAB\n-----END PUBLIC KEY-----"
    },
    "id": "591cda5d6c7adec42a1874bc",
    "updated": "2017-05-17T23:18:53.385Z"
  }
]
```

The public key is the string `-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----...-----END PUBLIC KEY-----`

In a multi-node deployment, when the cluster is first started up, database is empty and rsa key pair doesn't exist. To prevent multiple rsa keys being generated by different nodes, only the [master node](#node-roles) can generate the rsa key pair. other nodes will wait for the key pair available in database before proceeding with rest bootstrap.

<div class="note warning">
  <h5>Expose RSA public key to only trusted party</h5>
  <p>Dispite of the adjective public, NotifyBC's public key should only be distributed to trusted third party. The trusted third party should only use the public key at server backend. Using the public key in client-side JavaScript poses a security loophole.</p>
</div>
